---
title: Week One
author: Fawaz
layout: post
---

I was allocated to the Sea Lions Database project, along with Connor, George, Isabel, Michael. It didn't take long to acquaint ourselves as we all knew each other. We decided to communicate through Slack and to use Gitlab for collaborating and ticketing. Our main focus this week was to get a firm understanding of this project and requirements. We had a chat with Martin as he was the one who brought in this project. At the same time, we were brainstorming what platform we could use, looking at the pros and cons. Introduced ourselves to our client via email and made plans to have our first meeting.


DETAILED VERSION FOR REPORT - The teams and projects were announced today. Connor, George, Isabel, Michael and myself were assigned to the Sea Lions database team. Since we've all been in the same classes from the beginning of the course we all knew each other, so there wasn't much time needed to acquaint ourselves with one another. Once the team got together, we began discussing and brainstorming potential platform ideas for the database. However, we still didn't have much of a clue on what the project entailed. While we were waiting to speak to Martin, we thought out some questions to ask him, to understand the essence of the project and requirements.

Once we had a solid understanding of the project, we contacted our client Jordana. Through email, we briefly introduced ourselves and our intentions for this project and what we wanted to do for the NZSLT. We then asked to arrange a meeting with her to get a grasp of their current record keeping system and ways that it can be improved.

According to Martin, she is very busy and had a tight schedule, so we were very polite in our email and empathetic toward her situation. We asked her to give us some meeting times that would suit her schedule and let her know that we are willing to work around that.

Most of the communication done via email was done as a group so that we can bounce off better ways of communicating each topic that needed to be discussed. We did this for the sake of being professional and to make the client feel comfortable enough to express their thoughts on the topics discussed.